Let's start with dispatching and for that, of course for the moment, I wanted dispatch from inside my
auth service. Now
previously with the shopping list, we mainly dispatched from inside components, though the recipe service
and the add multiple ingredients case was an exception.
In general, you can dispatch from wherever you want and need to,
now that being said, we will restructure that service later to also handle these async HTTP requests with
NgRx
but for the moment since we do it in that service, I will dispatch from inside that service once we're
done with the HTTP request and therefore, let's inject our store here. I'll store it in a store property and
the type is of course store, where store is imported from @ngrx/store here and with that store imported,
this is a generic type as you learned
and again, I want to get the type definition of my application store. So I will import everything as from
app, by pointing it from store app reducer
and then here, we can use fromApp.AppState.
Now that's the store injected, now with the store injected here,
let's go to all the places where we call this user next because that is where we currently update
our state because we emit a new value to the world and that would be here in auto login for example.
So instead of using this user next, here I want to use this store dispatch and I want to login here
right because that's effectively what happened here,
we have a loaded user with a token, that simply means that we want to log that user in now,
we want to treat that user as logged in and therefore, we need access to our actions.
Hence let's scroll up and import everything as auth actions from
store auth actions here
and now back to that part where we just worked on, let's dispatch a new action here, a new object has
to be created because the action is an object and let's refer to auth actions and then use the login
class here.
Now this requires a bunch of data,
it requires an object with a couple of keys, with the e-mail key for example,
we get that from the loaded user,
so here we access the e-mail,
we also need to set the user ID which we also get from the loaded user data, there
we have an ID and the same for the token, we set this equal to loaded user token.
Now for the date, it's a bit more tricky,
we can get that from our user data though with this code. So I can just copy that code,
of course we could have also stored it in a separate constant to avoid copying it and then simply set
expiration date equal to new date of user data token expiration date.
Now we dispatch or we create an object which we then dispatch here in our auto login, for logging a
user in. Before we test this, let's handle all the other parts as well, for example for logging out, we
want to use the store and dispatch a new action, so a new auth action
and here it's the logout action which does not require any additional data,
so here we don't need to pass anything.
And last but not least, if we scroll down to handle authentication, here where I call user next,
just as before, I'll comment this out and instead call this store dispatch new auth actions login and
again, we need to pass in data here,
we need to pass in the e-mail of the user
and here I already created a user object, this
is of course redundant,
so let's remove that and let's instead forward the data we're getting as arguments here.
So let's forward e-mail, for the
user ID let's use user ID, for the token let's use the token argument we're getting,
so I'm just passing on these arguments and we're deriving the expiration date here,
so let's forward this as well, like that.
Now we're dispatching our new login action with all the data we're getting here inside of handle authentication.
Now last but not least, here
I'm storing a user object in local storage and therefore, it's not that good that I removed it, until
we handle that differently,
I'll therefore will bring back my user creation, deleted it too early,
again this is just temporary though, we will find a better solution for this later but for now, we need
the user object here because we do access local storage and that is something you should not do from inside
your reducer,
it's not asynchronous code but it's a so-called side effect still, so it is something that is not directly
connected to your state,
it's something you do besides updating your AppState and therefore this should not go into the reducer,
it wouldn't break the reducer but it would be considered a bad practice and I will show you how to handle
such side effects with NgRx later.
So for the moment, let's have this extra bit of redundancy here where we create a user even though we
then create it again in a login action or in the auth reducer to be precise,
we will tackle this later. With all of that,
we do dispatch all these actions but now of course, we also need to make sure that we use our auth state.
That's the next thing we'll take care of.